doc/cookbook.adoc, before:

= COOKBOOK
:doctype: article
:fragment:
:repository-url: https://github.com/marc-0x01/nixos-config
:!showtitle:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: docs/assets/img
:hardbreaks-option:
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:

== Cookbook

=== Nix

* Update flakes and switch linux to the target configuration
[source,bash]
----
  nix flake update
  nixos-rebuild switch --flake .#wackbox-0x01   
----

* Update flakes and switch darwin to the target configuration
[source,bash]
----
  nix flake update
  darwin-rebuild switch --flake .#marcbook-work   
----

* Cleanup old generations (keep the current and last two)
[source,bash]
----
  sudo nix-env --profile /nix/var/nix/profiles/system --delete-generations +3
----

* Launch maually a garbage collection 
[source,bash]
----
  sudo nix-store --gc
----

* Optimize manually the store (avoid on darwin, it can create a mess with links)
[source,bash]
----
  sudo nix store optimise
----

* Check for vulnerabilites of the system
[source,bash]
----
  vulnix --system
----

Commit message:

Enhance Nix configuration and tooling setup
- Improve nix.extraOptions ordering and formatting for better readability
- Add binary cache configuration with trusted public keys
  * Configure cache.nixos.org, nix-community.cachix.org, and nixpkgs-python.cachix.org
  * Include corresponding trusted public keys for secure package downloads
  * Increase download buffer size to 128MB to prevent buffer full warnings

- Update cookbook documentation
  * Add comprehensive garbage collection commands
  * Include time-based cleanup options for better storage management

- Enhance home-manager module configuration
  * Fix osConfig parameter in extra.nix for proper system configuration access
  * Add command timeout setting to starship prompt for better performance
  * Clean up terminal package list formatting

- Disable extra applications by default to reduce build complexity

These changes improve build performance, security, and configuration clarity
while maintaining compatibility across Darwin and NixOS systems.

doc/cookbook.adoc, after:

= COOKBOOK
:doctype: article
:fragment:
:repository-url: https://github.com/marc-0x01/nixos-config
:!showtitle:
:icons: font
:imagesdir: docs/assets/img
:hardbreaks-option:
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:

== Cookbook

=== Nix

* Update flakes and switch linux to the target configuration
[source,bash]
----
  nix flake update
  nixos-rebuild switch --flake .#wackbox-0x01   
----

* Update flakes and switch darwin to the target configuration
[source,bash]
----
  nix flake update
  darwin-rebuild switch --flake .#marcbook-work   
----

* Cleanup old generations (keep the current and last two)
[source,bash]
----
  sudo nix-env --profile /nix/var/nix/profiles/system --delete-generations +3
----

* Launch maually a garbage collection 
[source,bash]
----
  sudo nix-store --gc
----

* Or do it all in one on a time basis
[source,bash]
----
  nix-collect-garbage --delete-older-than 180d
----


* Optimize manually the store (avoid on darwin, it can create a mess with links)
[source,bash]
----
  sudo nix store optimise
----

* Check for vulnerabilites of the system
[source,bash]
----
  vulnix --system
----
